---
title: SEA Agenda 23-24
description: Intended club goals for academic year 2023-24.
date: 2023-12-19
categories: [SEA]
tags: [agenda]
---
## Relative links
- [Original Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1B2LOkxHrRBiPYN_CdXQkz6LP_04ZU3op28ygdMCtvB0/edit?usp=sharing){:target="_blank"}

## SEA Agenda

This is the overall objective for the club, Software Engineering Association. The objective goes towards the goal of improving the club to be able to provide experience to the CS student body and those who are interested in software. The objectives:

- Project Initiative (Changed to Odyssey, due to copyright reasons)
    

- Description: Program that essentially hosts projects oriented towards beginners
    
- Purpose: Allowing project members to figure out what area of interest they want to pursue (frontend, backend, machine learning, web dev, etc)
    
- Targeted Audience: Freshmen & Sophomores. All years are welcome, but its attended to help figure out 
    
- Future Goals: To take students who’ve discovered their knack from the beginner project and push them toward a more difficult one that’ll help them hone themselves. A difficult project being either a club project or likely a professor’s research project. Also allows us the board to see those with work ethic and allow us to award them and further promote good work ethic to stir a culture of hard workers.
    

- E-Board Restructuring
    

- Purpose: Reorganizing the clubs operations to be not in the hands of individuals who gain right experience (Ex. Account Major = Treasurer, or Scheduler & Secretary = Business major with HR emphasis). Club boards struggle with strain on management as that was not what they intended to do. They intend to do the club’s goals, not manage the people to that goal. Especially for large scale management of 30+ people.
    

- Integrating club to the UAV Lab via handling interviewing process
    

- Purpose: Contributing to the interviews that’ll allow opportunities for students with intermediate experience. Then also creating a motive to attract more individuals who are capable and willing to complete projects. 
    
- Future Goal: With management of the interviewing process, can speed up the process of creating a culture of good work-ethic by having a concentrated amount of eager students who want to work. Later filtered to get capable students.
    

# Odyssey

Project initiative, soon to be called Odyssey (for copyright reasons), is created to solve community issue of lack of support to help club members to figure out what they want to do with their software related career. The other motives follows:

- Lack of skill in research projects advised by a professor. Lack of skill as in not having enough support or know-how to finish the project milestones within a given time, or have any note-worthy work accomplished
    

- Why is this important motive? If under qualification continues, then defunding happens. It can screw over everyone. Students lose a resume point, professors lose cash, etc…
    

- Lack of Responsibility in several projects. Cases of students leaving at a sudden moment, derailing all progress as 1. No clear documentation was provided 2. Lack of preparation to ensure if they do leave, they allow those who continue to be able to continue without suddenly being roadblock due to sudden dismissal.
    
- Lack of support in cultivating students to become capable and having those students give back as mentors to new students, or new members. One of the biggest flaws as a CS student is either we don't have nepotism on our side or don't have any knowledge on useful information and opportunity is missed.
    

Thus, this is a step towards making a community based on work ethic NOT pizza. Pizza is good, but it wont increase our chances of a job. Yes there is networking, but the assumption is that we’re all trash and have no substance. Establishing meritocracy, where skill is emphasized and the whole point is to make things and stick to the end of it all.

## Project Initiative Mechanics

For Project initiative, it operates by taking professor projects that will exist for years, and derive simplified versions of that project to make it easier for beginners to do, but not easy enough that it's meaningless (ex. Tic tac toe game that can be done alone). The members who participate would be beginners, and the project leads would also be beginners to the idea also. Although the project leads are expected to be upperclassmen at best to retain better order.

Why do we have inexperienced leads lead inexperienced people? (Yes, blind leading blind dilemma)

- Beginning of the wheel: The wheel of upperclassmen SEA members supporting underclassmen SEA members hasn't been made. This is the first iteration (FALL2023), so everyones clueless
    

- For the wheel to start, we can't wait for someone good to help others. We need to start from 100% scratch, or else this becomes a whole waiting for the chosen one that might not ever appear. 
    

- Being Realistic to who we have: Having inexperienced leads is just using what we have. The highly skilled or those having something more valuable would not have a great reason to join these types of projects. There is nothing wrong with being inexperienced and leads to the need to adopt a "trial by fire" system
    

- Trial by fire: as in throwing inexperienced leads (hopefully in the future we have mentors) into the role. 
    

- NOTE: its pushing them, while providing ample amount of guidelines and guidance (that would be mentors in the future). Once they are thrown into the role, they'll adapt to what works and doesn't work for them.
    

- Cumulating leadership experience: With so many new and later on older leads experiencing various woes and testing to see what style of leadership they'll do means a unique opportunity for us. Allows the opportunity to collect different experiences and use the collected experience to help the next cycle of inexperienced leads.
    

## Special trait for this year's odyssey Projects

The whole goal of odyssey is to help what CS area of interest a club member wants, but I want to consider a step after the project's completion. Where they'll likely need a good looking project on their resume. Something more attainable than internships, would be the professor's projects within the school. Thus, several projects that are occurring this semester: HTGR (hit-the-ground-running) and Volunteer Allocator have been fitted to go towards somewhere if the members of the project choose to go there. There is also CS Catalog as the 3rd project for FALL 2023, but the end goal differs as the project serves to support student knowledge in general. 

HTGR goes to Dr. Chen's Mobility Scooter Project. Members should know how to/understand:

- Feature Extract
    
- General idea of Machine Learning lifecycle
    
- LSTM model that Dr. Chen uses the models
    
- Data preprocessing
    

Should give good standing to getting somewhere on her project.

Volunteer Allocator goes to the NGCP - GCS team. I asked the GCS lead to mentor Olena and knowing the GCS lead he wants more members who'll stick to his subteam. Thus, Olena gets wisdom from him, while GCS lead develops the people he needs for next semester. Although this will likely fall through due to Olena not utilizing GCS team lead, thus breaking this potential link.

NOTE: I plan to send all the people to these projects next semester or when they have finished the project. Some of their timelines are wonky and can have longer development time 

Cybrary/CS Catalog is an exception to sending to somewhere as the project is not bad by itself when touching on web dev and backend components. From what I know, there isn't a professor's project that is Full stack. If anything the project can be scaled to become more of a robust project that is actually handy to Pomonians.

Worst case scenario is sending those who showed good work-ethic in any of the projects and sending them to the UAV Lab to participate in the projects there (obviously they have a choice). The lab still suffers from slackers, so sending those who showed their work-ethic would be able to gradually resolve the slacker issue, while being able to work on their resume.

  
  

# Board Restructuring

Considerations of creating an eboard consisting of Business majors (likely CIS), in order to:

- Reduce burnout of macro management
    

- President is a good resume point, but a large flaw is that it can stomp personal growth when things get hectic for the club. An individual who has a higher chance of handling sudden large workloads is ideal by simply having more spare time to use
    
- Would mean there is a co-president who oversees logistics (funds, PR, etc). Then a CS president that oversees CS projects, or pushes for further innovation
    

  

Roles that I consider to replace with business:

- PR/Social (we don't got one due to hyperfocusing for projects)
    
- Treasurer (likely an accounting major)
    
- Secretary
    
- Scheduler
    

So overall we'll have it like:

- Co President BUSINESS MAJOR 
    
- Co President CS MAJOR
    
- Treasurer ACCOUNTING MAJOR/BUSINESS MAJOR
    
- Secretary CS/BUSINESS MAJOR 
    
- Scheduler BUSINESS MAJOR 
    
- PR/Social BUSINESS/VISUAL COMM MAJOR
    

New roles:

- Project Voyage Chairman: CS MAJOR
    

-  In charge of managing project leads
    

- Project Voyage Vice-Chairman: CS MAJOR
    

- In charge of managing mentors for project leads
    

- Outreach Officer: BUSINESS / CS / CHARISMATIC PERSON WE HAVE
    

- In charge of contacting professors and creating symbiotic relations to their projects for future club projects to tailor ourselves to. 
    

- Deputy CS (BOARD INTERN) Secretaries:
    

- In charge of writing or collecting reports on all projects. They act as the club's nervous system to knowing whats going on and keeping everything well documented. WELL DOCUMENTATION MEANS WE CAN UNDERSTAND WHAT WE CAN IMPROVE ON
    

- Deputy BUSINESS (BOARD INTERN) Secretaries:
    

-  In charge of writing or collecting reports for Treasurer, Secretary, and anything outside of the projects
    

optional new roles:

- Graphic Designer: 
    

- In charge of the new project initiative logo and in general illustrations of any public work.
    

## Club Elections

As we are developing things and I want my plan to actually finish. I ask you to avoid voting elections until things are set in stone habitually. The things I suggest for future boards is creating an infrastructure that is motivated for experience to put on a resume, while optimizing practical experience for CS students. We can not guarantee a more sound infrastructure if these plans are not continued by the next presidents. Once these ideas are solidified and retained for several semesters, then elections may resume. The mantra needs to be set in stone, so SEA members who follow the mantra, would know who are the right individuals to be elected for the board.

Who are we looking for the next board members? Focus on Sophomores/Junior for the bigger roles. Secretaries allow anyone including freshmen. Seniors will be fine, but likely they would focus on trying to get a job than actually contributing to the club. Obviously there are exceptions, but I need to assume the worst and that senior board members may not contribute to the club as well as a junior.

# UAV Lab & Club Integration

Through participation of the UAV Lab, I (Marc Cruz) established the first interviewing process that began FALL 2023 as I got tired of how poorly managed the projects were. To have an idea of how committed I am to creating a culture of good work-ethic: [UAV Pipeline Proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/u/1/d/1gfZ0IYlE4Mb3k7NdBiJCNiBOP9XlcaiS6A543F08dbU/edit). Gives the rough outline of what was proposed, and what was carried out. Although several flaws with the system as it is still new and slackers can not be simply kicked out of the lab, but be gradually phased out throughout the years. 

The potential that I (Marc Cruz) want to apply to a standard of higher standard and responsibility that will allow future SEA members that show good work-ethic to join the lab and be in an environment that pushes them to thrive and not lie of what they did on their resume. With us, practically monopolizing the interview process for software related roles in the UAV Lab projects allows a way to make the culture that I attended to establish and develop to be obtainable even after I leave.

Examples of what I expect documentation to be like with their documentation:

[SUAS Competition - FALL 2023 Final Report](https://docs.google.com/document/u/1/d/127LPZ3pmPbW8TT0Xkum2A7rAt8guVV1C-kRKFg72PIo/edit)

This is far from perfect, but is a good step forward in the future goals of SEA that the UAV Lab may reap benefits from by being a pillar of strength the club can utilize for experience.
