---
title: HTGR - Machine Learning Application | Project Overview
description: Design Document for Software Engineering Association club project initatives FALL 2023.
date: 2023-08-15
categories: [SEA, Project Designs]
tags: [overview]
---
## Relative Links:
- [HTGR Github Repository](https://github.com/cppsea/ML_HTGR){:target="_blank"}
- [Project Page](https://www.cppsea.com/projects/htgr/){:target="_blank"}

## Motivation

A project to allow students a taste of machine learning applications. Created to allow individuals who are interested in machine learning, while learning how to use various python tools.

## Data

For the neural network, we would be using time series data. Data that is chronological. Example of this type of data is brain wave graphs. The data type is important to know when making a neural network as the data type you use changes what type of machine learning model used. And what type of additional work that may have to be done. As we’re mainly going to use a Kaggle dataset, the need for data collection isn’t needed. Instead would be data preprocessing/wrangling where we take the current data and make it useful for a machine learning model. Specifically only the mean data of x, y, z axis for accelerometer and gyroscope data. 

  
Kaggle dataset: [https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/shashwatwork/driving-behavior-dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/shashwatwork/driving-behavior-dataset)

## Neural Network Model

The neural network that would be first be developed is a LSTM (long short term memory) model as the model in particular is a decent model to use for time-series data. Other various models would be considered, such as GRU and RNN. Although the other models would be only pursued dependent on the progress of the team. The main performance metrics the project would be concerned about is accuracy and precision.

  

Supplemental material:

- [https://towardsdatascience.com/illustrated-guide-to-lstms-and-gru-s-a-step-by-step-explanation-44e9eb85bf21](https://nam11.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftowardsdatascience.com%2Fillustrated-guide-to-lstms-and-gru-s-a-step-by-step-explanation-44e9eb85bf21&data=04%7C01%7Cmarccruz%40cpp.edu%7C505d68de76d4440e088f08d9e85df775%7C164ba61e39ec4f5d89ffaa1f00a521b4%7C0%7C0%7C637796312567713947%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=gMQCXEhBBSdV%2BHr23SV9wqFeUV%2B%2BYmMZrY7KvN6GPvc%3D&reserved=0)
    
- [https://colah.github.io/posts/2015-08-Understanding-LSTMs/](https://nam11.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcolah.github.io%2Fposts%2F2015-08-Understanding-LSTMs%2F&data=04%7C01%7Cmarccruz%40cpp.edu%7C505d68de76d4440e088f08d9e85df775%7C164ba61e39ec4f5d89ffaa1f00a521b4%7C0%7C0%7C637796312567713947%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=6vvNCeNjwCwxLUZ77UOK1ZbHYLxdliS0b4FS%2BUQXe3k%3D&reserved=0)
    
- [https://medium.com/softmax/tensorflow-keras-lstm-source-code-line-by-line-explained-125a6dae0622](https://nam11.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fsoftmax%2Ftensorflow-keras-lstm-source-code-line-by-line-explained-125a6dae0622&data=04%7C01%7Cmarccruz%40cpp.edu%7C505d68de76d4440e088f08d9e85df775%7C164ba61e39ec4f5d89ffaa1f00a521b4%7C0%7C0%7C637796312567870210%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=CfYMBkqDhzphiQrY8RKEeM5YjgphDnFT%2FhdBJBhjOVg%3D&reserved=0) (note this one is a bit heavier to grasp)
    

## Technologies

Language: Python

Framework: TensorFlow

Libraries: Scikit-learn, Pandas, NumPy, Seaborn

Loggers: Weights & Balances, TensorBoard

  

Our machine learning project is powered by a streamlined and efficient tech stack. We've chosen Python for its versatility and rich ecosystem. TensorFlow serves as our framework, offering deep learning capabilities. For data manipulation and model development, we rely on Scikit-learn and Pandas. This straightforward tech stack ensures we're well-equipped to deliver robust machine learning solutions. 

### Pandas
Pandas is a helpful tool in Python for managing and studying data. It makes working with tables (like Excel) and numbers simpler. You can easily clean messy data, find patterns, and even do math on it. It's a favorite for people who analyze information or build machine learning programs.

### Scikit-learn
Scikit-learn is a handy Python library for creating and using machine learning models. It provides tools that make it easy to build smart programs that can learn from data. Whether you want to predict something, classify things, or find patterns, scikit-learn offers tools to help you do that without getting bogged down in complicated code. Although would note, would be using TensorFlow more, but introducing other ML related libraries.

### NumPy
NumPy, short for "Numerical Python," is a fundamental library in Python for numerical computations. It provides support for large, multi-dimensional arrays and matrices, along with an extensive collection of mathematical functions to operate on these arrays. NumPy's core feature is its ndarray (n-dimensional array) object, which is not only efficient for numerical computations but also forms the basis for many other libraries in the scientific Python ecosystem.

### Seaborn
Seaborn is a Python data visualization library that helps you create beautiful and informative visualizations effortlessly. Built on top of Matplotlib, Seaborn adds an extra layer of simplicity and aesthetic appeal to your graphs and plots, making it an excellent choice for exploring and showcasing patterns and insights within your data.

### TensorFlow
TensorFlow is an open-source machine learning framework developed by Google that enables you to build and deploy machine learning models with exceptional power and flexibility. It's designed to handle a wide range of tasks, from training intricate deep neural networks to deploying models on various platforms, making it an indispensable tool for researchers and practitioners in the field of artificial intelligence.

### Wandb
Weights & Biases, often referred to as "wandb," is a sophisticated tool designed to streamline and enhance the process of experiment tracking and machine learning experimentation. It empowers researchers and machine learning practitioners by providing a comprehensive platform to log, visualize, and collaborate on experiments, enabling better insights and faster progress in model development.

### TensorBoard
TensorBoard is a powerful visualization tool provided by TensorFlow that allows you to understand, debug, and optimize your machine learning models with ease. It provides interactive visualizations of various aspects of your training and model performance, making it an invaluable asset for enhancing your understanding of complex neural network architectures and training processes.
