---
title: Class Group Project | CS4210 Final Report
description: CS4210 (Machine Learning and it's Applications) Group Final Project. Virtual Assitant Application.
date: 2023-05-12
categories: [Projects, Class Projects]
tags: [machine learning, project]
authors: [<Marc_Cruz>, <Marvin_Sevilla>, <Dennis_Uryeu>]
---

## Relative Links
- [Full Report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T9xizr6sQ4f1YxLhUF4FlQZ3ieGlH5J2_9EtVfo8rWE/edit?usp=sharing)

## Abstract —
Our team sought to create the foundations for a virtual assistant tailored for the Student Unmanned Aerial Systems (SUAS) Competition Project. We aimed to streamline information access by leveraging sophisticated frameworks such as BERT, or Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers, and Extractive Question-Answer (QA) models to automate data retrieval. Our primary objective was to develop a machine learning model capable of efficiently responding to questions about the SUAS project given a corpus derived from SUAS project-documentation with chunks of relevant text from the same corpus. Logistical hurdles in data processing and inadequate knowledge preservation within the SUAS team complicated previous team-endeavors. To surmount these (and future) obstacles, we produced a model that could answer simple questions over the course of a semester. Through iterative optimization and strategic data augmentation, we enhanced the model's efficacy. During training, the model (on average) processed an epoch every 128.33 seconds, achieving a loss of 21.43%, an exact-match ratio of 0.607, and a ROGUE value of 0.724. While the generated responses require further refinement, these metrics signify promising progress towards our goal of creating a robust virtual assistant for the SUAS project.
